# pokerbot
Final Project for CS162 Honors Intro to Programming 2

Poker is a fun game to play and also a fun game to imagine AI for, given the imperfect information that exists in the game.
I plan on working on a Poker AI, as well as an interface to play poker within. I expect to program the code in Python, as it is the language I am most familiar with.
Problem

Create first an interface for a Texas Holdem game and then create an AI that can participate in that game.

Solution by Andrew Dong

For my program, I created an interface whereby two players can play poker against each other. The poker AI, dubbed poker-bot relies on a concept known as reinforcement learning, wherein the bot learns through simulations against itself of strong strategies. My inspiration for this sort of an implementation comes the Cepheus poker-bot, which was developed by a computer research group at the University of Alberta. The paper can be found here: http://www.sciencemag.org/content/347/6218/145.full.
Our code features the Texas Hold'em variant of poker, which consists of four rounds of betting - the pocket, the flop, the turn and the river phases. In the flop, turn and river phases, cards are dropped into a communal pit which players around the table are able to use to make hands in coordination with their two secret pocket cards dealt first. The players then compare hands after the flop, or if all but one player has left, the player left does not reveal his hand.
There are 10 different hand types in poker - high cards, pairs, two pairs, three of a kind, straight, flush, full house, four of a kind, straight flush and royal flush.
My poker bot works by starting out with knowledge of basic hand strengths, the computations of which can be seen in the main game file, pokerGame.py. Hand strength is calculated by checking hand with communal pile whether a straight flush, four of a kind, full house, flush, straight, three of a kind, two pair, pair or high card appear, then assigning a numerical value depending on what appears.
Admittedly, here is a flaw in my code - because the code does not calculate expected values the bot is relatively weak at earlier phases of the game, such as the pair phase and even the flop phase and can be easily bluffed out of games. One possible fix to this would be to implement expected values using Bayes' theorem. This is incredibly time consuming and redundant though.
Here we have introduced a bot with extremely rudimentary understanding of the game. Essentially, all it knows is what type of hand it has. This is enough though, as now we are able to run it through our learning period, which is shown in gameSetup.py. The bot plays n rounds of the game against itself where n is extremely large (the larger the better), and at each phase of the game a different list is generated. At each phase (pair, flop, turn, river) a value is added for a new hand strength (though only 1 value per hand strength) and upon each new encounter a new value is added and the list is saved. After the lists are finalized, we run the lists through a function which updates the probability lists for the rounds. The results are saved to text fileswhich contain values in the form of x.xxx.xxx where the first portion represents the hand strength, the second represents probability for winning and the third represents the number of times the hand was displayed.
Finally, we get to see the bot play a game against another player in mainInterface.py, wherein the bot checks its hand and iterates through text files to see whether that particular hand strength has been seen before. If so, it takes the corresponding probability value and makes a decision based on the probability strength. The way I have it implemented, if the probability value is below .3 the bot checks and folds to opposing bets, below .6 means the bot will check or call opposing bets and above .6 the bot will bet.
Included are the files pokerBot.py which reads in saved probabilities for different card strengths and saves them to lists for later access, pokerCard.py which allows for the different categories of cards (suits and numbers), pokerGame.py which contains the main game and logic which allows for the creation of a deck, randomized dealing of cards, and determination of hand strengths, mainInterface.py which allows for playing of the game in the shell and gameSetup.py which allows for the reinforcement learning of our poker bot.
I hope you enjoyed learning about poker AIs and consider reinforcement learning for future game AIs beyond poker in the future. Thanks for reading!
